---
layout: default 
title: Policies 
nav_order: 3
---


### Project Partner Policy

All projects are partner-optional.  You and your partner(s) will work
together on the assignment throughout the whole process, you will
write it and review it together, and will submit one assignment. The
assignment must be a true joint effort, equally owned, created and
understood by both partners. Specifically splitting the assignment and
working on the problems separately is not allowed and violates the
honor code for the class.


### Project Collaboration policy


- __Collaboration across teams is at level-1:__ that is, verbal
  collaboration without solution sharing. You are allowed and
  encouraged to discuss ideas with other class members, but the
  communication should be verbal and additionally it can include
  diagrams on board. Noone is allowed to take notes during the
  discussion (being able to recreate the solution later frommemory is
  proof that you actually understood it). Communication cannot include
  sharing pseudocode for the problem. Please read the department's
  collaboration policy.



- __Pair programming policy:__ If you chose to work with a partner,
you must work together, physically in the same place, for the entire
project that you do together. The overall project must be a true joint
effort, equally owned, created and understood by both
partners. Specifically splitting the problem into parts and working on
them separately is not allowed and violates the honor code for the
class. If you start together as a team and are unable to complete the
project together, then you will each inherit teh shared code, and
split up to work individually on the remainder of the project. You
would then submit individually, with a note on what happened.  There
are many advantages to working with a partner (e.g. more fun, more
learning, good skill for the "real world"), and I encourage you to
try. You may also consider alternating between working alone and with
a partner, and changing partners.

Remember that you are responsible for reading, understanding, and
adhering to the policy. If you have any questions about any aspects of
the policy, please do not hesitate to ask for clarification.



### Emergencies and personal circumstances

If you have serious circumstances that will impact your ability to do
good work and meet a deadline, please let me know as soon as possible
so that we can make a plan. Please only _serious_ circumstances (for
e.g. taking two classes with homework deadlines the same day does not
count as a serious circumstance).


### Honor Code 

All students are expected to be familiar with and to comply with the
department's [collaboration
policy](https://turing.bowdoin.edu/dept/collab.php) and the four
levels of collaboration it outlines.

